# mentorship-clustering
A clustering application for pairing mentors and mentees in a peer mentorship program.  

### Motivation  
**1)** As incoming freshmen, university students are often challenged with the first steps of forming new, impactful relationships.  
**2)** Through a mentorship program, upperclassmen have the opportunity to connect with freshmen and offer a point-of-contact for advice about student life.  
**3)** The relationship-building process can be optimally facilitated by matching mentors and mentees with common interests and personalities.  
**4)** By algorithmically matching mentees to mentors, assignments can be determined without human bias.

### Instructions  
**mentorship-clustering.py:** Questionnaire parsing, clustering, and generation of pairings list.  
- Before running this script, make sure the two CSV files (report data for both *mentors* and *mentees*) are in the same directory as the script.  
- Returns:  
  - A printed list of all mentees and their assigned mentors.
  - Ex: `Mentor: Person A` `Mentee: Person B`  

**Questionnaires:** Qualtrics surveys for gathering data to drive the clustering script.  
- This program is designed to work with reports generated by Qualtrics surveys. CSV files returned by Qualtrics begin with 16 fields of metadata which will not be used in this analysis.  
- When using this program with a custom Qualtrics survey:  
  - The first question asked (field 17) *must* be the participant's name as it will be used to identify the participant in the final results.  
  - The second question asked (field 18) *must* be the participant's username or identifying organization credential (for Indiana University, this is the user's CAS username).  
  - All following questions must comprise the complete set of responses to be analyzed. These "questions" should be statements to which the participant responds with a degree of agreement (0.0 - 10.0). No additional questions should be asked after the survey response questions.  
- A separate survey should be issued to mentors and mentees. These surveys should be identical, but participants in each survey will be identified as a mentor or mentee accordingly. 
